DRAFT OF LICENSE TO USE COPYRIGHT AGREEMENT
I ………….s/o………………. r/o………………...., the owner of the copyright, to Award the LICENCE to
s/or/o for using the said for the purpose of for a period of in lieu of the consideration of already
paid to me on.., and I hereby acknowledge the receipt of said amount.
Date.

Documents Required for Licence to use Copyright
In order to enter into this agreement the copyright owner must have the copyright registered in
his name and must have the relevant documents evidencing his title over the copyright in
question. Other than this, the identity proofs of the parties can also be scrutinized before
entering into the agreement.
Procedure for Licence to use Copyright
No set procedure is applicable in the making of an agreement of licence to use copyright. Once
the agreement has been drafted by a lawyer, it should be specifically and carefully read by both
the parties to the agreement. Any necessary changes required to be made shall be carried out
and once the agreement is finalised, it shall be signed by both the parties along with the
requisite witnesses. The agreement is then legally binding when it is printed on judicial stamp
paper/e-stamp paper and signed by both the parties. The stamp paper value depends on the
particular State in which it is executed. Each party should thereafter keep a signed copy of the
Agreement.
Legal Considerations for Licence to use Copyright
An agreement of licence to use copyright is a legal document that includes clauses stating the
terms and conditions between the parties. It needs to be printed on a judicial / e-stamp paper of
the correct value and signed by both parties. The agreement is required to be registered after
stamping with proper value, as per State laws.
How can a lawyer help to draft Licence to use Copyright?
While drafting agreements, it is important to know as to what terminology should be used while
drafting the same as a small ambiguity in the terms can also jeopardize the claim of the parties.
This is why it is crucial to have a documentation lawyer to assist you with the drafting an
agreement. Being an expert in the area of documentation law, a documentation lawyer knows
the nitty-gritty of the legal procedures and the requirements involved in drafting an agreement.
With the experience attained in the field, he/she can guide you with the right advice while
entering into an agreement and can make sure that such mistakes are eliminated that cannot be
resolved even through further legal procedures.
