Documents Required for Lease Deed (for a term of years) Rent Agreement
There are no specific documents required for the drafting and execution of an agreement for
rent/lease. However, ID proofs of the parties in order to confirm the names and permanent
addresses of the lessor and lessee should be scrutinised. Documents evidencing the landlord's
clear title of the property in question should also be examined.
Procedure for Lease Deed (for a term of years) Rent Agreement
No set procedure is applicable in the making of a rent/lease agreement. Once the agreement
has been drafted by a lawyer, it should be specifically and carefully read by both the parties to
the agreement. Any necessary changes required to be made shall be carried out and once the
agreement is finalised, it shall be signed by both the parties along with the requisite witnesses.
The agreement for rent/lease must be printed on stamp paper/e-stamp paper of proper valueand signed by both the parties. The stamp paper value depends on the particular State in which
it is executed. Each party should thereafter keep a signed copy of the agreement. If the rent
period is of more than 11 months, the agreement is mandatorily required to be registered
according to state laws.
Legal Considerations for Lease Deed (for a term of years) Rent Agreement
A rent or lease agreement is required to be printed on stamp paper of correct value, as per laws
in different States. If the lease agreement is up to 11 months, it does not mandatorily need
registration. However, a rent agreement more than 11 months is required to be registered.
How can a lawyer help to draft Lease Deed (for a term of years) Rent Agreement?
One of the first and the most important steps that you must undertake is to hire a
good documentation lawyer as he/she is aware of the nitty gritty of the legal procedures and
necessary requirements involved in drafting of rent/lease agreements. A lawyer would draft
such an agreement, better than you can yourself, since he/she has the necessary legal
knowledge and experience to handle and draft such documents. He/She will be able to guide
you and draft for you according to your particular situation - the facts, circumstances and
needs involved. A documentation lawyer is aware of good drafting technique and the clauses
that must be included in your agreement.
Hiring a good lawyer in order to draft such important legal documents is a prerequisite and will
help you in more ways than one. He/She can also help with proper stamping and registration as
the case may be. Even if you have received a rent/lease agreement from the other party, it is the
best step to hire a lawyer to proofread / vet the agreement before signing, in order to ensure that
the terms and conditions stated in agreement are not against your interests or that it is not a
one-sided agreement.
