Documents Required for Deed of Family Trust
No specific documents are required to execute the deed of family trust. However, one should
scrutinize the property documents and the documents evidencing title of the same when a
family property is involved in the trust. The parties to the trust must also scrutinize other
relevant documents related to the business required to be managed as part of the family trust.
Procedure for Deed of Family Trust
No set procedure is applicable in the making of such an agreement. However, once the
agreement has been drafted by a lawyer, it should be specifically and carefully read by both the
parties to the agreement. Any necessary changes required to be made shall be carried out and
once the agreement is finalised, it shall be signed by both the parties along with the requisite
witnesses. The said agreement is legally binding when it is printed on judicial stamp paper/estamp paper and signed by both the parties. The stamp paper value (if relevant) depends on the
particular State in which it is executed. Each party should thereafter keep a signed copy of this
agreement between the parties.
Legal Considerations for Deed of Family Trust
A deed of family trust is a legal document that includes clauses stating the terms and
conditions between the parties. It needs to be printed on a judicial / e-stamp paper of the
correct value and signed by both parties. The agreement is required to be registered after
stamping with proper value, as per State laws.
How can a lawyer help to draft Deed of Family Trust?
While drafting agreements, it is important to know as to what terminology should be used while
drafting the same as a small ambiguity in the terms can also jeopardize the claim of the parties.
This is why it is crucial to have a documentation lawyer to assist you with the drafting of the
agreement. Being an expert in the area of documentation law, a documentation lawyer knows
the nitty-gritty of the legal procedures and the requirements involved in drafting an agreement.
With the experience attained in the field, he/she can guide you with the right advice while
entering into an agreement and can make sure that such mistakes are eliminated that cannot be
resolved even through further legal procedures.
