Documents Required for Separation Agreement between Husband and Wife
There are no specific documents required for the drafting and execution of a separation
agreement between parties to a marriage. However, ID proofs to prove information related to
identity and property/financial documents to be sure of the ownership of properties and that of
the parties’ finances could be required.
Procedure for Separation Agreement between Husband and Wife
No set procedure is applicable in the making of such an agreement between the husband and
wife. However, you could hire a lawyer to draft it and once the agreement has been drafted by a
lawyer, it should be specifically and carefully read by both the parties to the agreement. Any
necessary changes required to be made shall be carried out and once the agreement is
finalised, it shall be signed by both the parties along with the requisite witnesses. Each party
can thereafter keep a signed copy of this agreement between the parties to marriage.
Legal Considerations for Separation Agreement between Husband and Wife
A separation agreement between husband and wife is not a validly recognised and enforceable
agreement in India till now. However, at the time of divorce in the Courts, it can help in painting a
picture of the intention of both the parties and substantiate that there were issues/problems in
the marriage, subject to admissibility by both the parties.
How can a lawyer help to draft Separation Agreement between Husband and Wife?
One of the first and the most important steps that you must take is to hire a
good documentation or divorce lawyer as he/she is aware of the nitty gritty of the legal
procedures and necessary requirements involved in drafting of such agreements between
husband and wife, and also the repercussions of signing one. A lawyer has the necessary legal
knowledge and experience to handle and draft such documents. He/She will be able to guide
you and draft for you according to your particular situation - the facts, circumstances and
needs involved. A documentation/divorce lawyer is aware of good drafting technique and the
clauses that must be included in such an agreement keeping in mind the future divorce
procedures. Hiring a good lawyer in order to draft such important legal documents is a
prerequisite and will help you in more ways than one. Even if you have received an agreement
from your spouse, it is best to hire a lawyer to vet/proof read the agreement before you sign, so
that it is assured that your interests are not vitiated and it is not a one-sided agreement.