Documents Required for Legal Notice for Property Partition
The following documents must be scrutinized while drafting a legal notice for partition of
property:
o Identity proof of legal heir,
o Certified copies of all title deeds of property,
o Valuation of property,
o Birth and Residence proof of legal heir,
o Death certificates of deceased owner,
o Residence certificate of the deceased.
Procedure for Legal Notice for Property Partition
No set procedure is applicable in the making of a legal notice for Property Partition. However, a
legal notice must be drafted and signed by a lawyer, with all the necessary details/contents as
mentioned above. Once the notice is drafted it should be examined by the sender. It should then
be sent to the other parties. If no action is taken or no reply is received within the number of
days mentioned upon the notice, a partition suit against the defendant can be filed in the court
of proper jurisdiction.
Legal Considerations for Legal Notice for Property Partition
Property partition in India may be governed by Hindu Succession Act 1956, the Partition Act
1893, Code of Civil Procedure 1908, the Indian Succession act 1925. If there is an infringement
of right over the property in the scenario when other relatives or members of your family try to
dispose of the undivided property in an illegal manner, a suit for declaration and permanent
injunction can be filed. If the property has already been sold or disposed of by the co-owners to
another third party, then a legal notice for partition suit can be sent to the co-sharer along with
the other person who has purchased such property. Once a notice has been sent, or file for
permanent injunction and cancellation of sale can be filed before the concerned civil court.
The legal notice serves the purpose of giving a reasonable time to the person to sign partition
deed or go for partition suit. The notice also acts as valid proof before a Court of Law.
How can a lawyer help to draft Legal Notice for Property Partition?
Since, a legal notice is the first step towards recovery litigation, it is highly recommended that
you hire a family law lawyer. A lawyer has the requisite expertise and knowledge to draft such
legal notices. He/she will be able to accumulate important information for the client and draft
the notice accordingly. He/she will ensure that you are on the right path in attaining justice. A
lawyer can manage all legal paperwork effectively. Therefore, hiring an expert family law lawyer
is of prime importance in order to ensure that your legal notice for property partition is sent
correctly, keeping in mind the possible litigation that may ensue