Documents Required for Sample Letter to Builder for Delay in Handing Over the Possession
No specific documents are required in order to draft and execute a letter to builder for delay in
possession . However, ID proofs of the sender in order to confirm the name and permanent
address of the sender should be scrutinised. Other than the above, brochures of the builder if
available, money receipts or any other documents which can prove that the payment was made
by you to the builder could be necessary.
Procedure for Sample Letter to Builder for Delay in Handing Over the Possession
No set procedure is applicable in the making of a letter to the builder for delay in possession.
However, all the facts regarding the builder buyer agreement should be discussed with the
lawyer drafting the said letter or notice. Once the letter or notice is drafted it should be
examined by the sender. It should then be sent to the builder/developer. If no action is taken or
no repayment is done by the builder/developer within the number of days mentioned in the
letter or notice, you can directly approach the court and file a case without any further
communication with the builder/developer.
Legal Considerations for Sample Letter to Builder for Delay in Handing Over the Possession
Builder-buyer agreements, notices and court matters are dealt with under Property/Real Estate
laws and Consumer Protection laws. If you are sending a letter to the Builder, you do not need to
send it in the lawyer’s name. However, a legal notice is a more stringent measure which involves
sending it in the lawyer’s name. Sending the legal notice can be taken as the first step to
initiating legal proceedings against the builder/developer for delay in possession.
How can a lawyer help to draft Sample Letter to Builder for Delay in Handing Over the
Possession?
Since, a notice to the builder for delay in possession is the first step towards litigation, it is
highly recommended that you hire a property / real estate lawyer. A lawyer has the requisite
expertise and knowledge to draft such legal notices or letters. He/she will be able to
accumulate important information for the client and draft the notice/letter accordingly. He/she
will ensure that you are on the right path in attaining justice. A lawyer can manage all legal
paperwork effectively. Therefore, hiring an expert property/real estate lawyer is of prime
importance in order to ensure that your letter/notice is sent correctly, keeping in mind the
possible litigation that may ensue.