Documents Required for Loan Agreement with Security
There are no specific documents required for the drafting and execution of a loan agreement
with security. However, since there is security involved - papers evidencing the same would be
required. For example if the security is an immovable property of the borrower, ownership
papers for the same must be scrutinized. Other than this, ID proofs of the parties in order to
confirm the names and permanent addresses of the lender and borrower shall be scrutinized.
Procedure for Loan Agreement with Security
No set procedure is applicable in the making of a loan agreement with security. However, once
the agreement has been drafted by a lawyer, it should be specifically and carefully read by both
the parties to the agreement. Any necessary changes required to be made shall be carried out
and once the agreement is finalised, it shall be signed by both the parties along with the
requisite witnesses. The loan agreement has evidentiary value when it is printed on stamp
paper/e-stamp paper and signed by both the parties. The stamp paper value depends on the
particular State in which it is executed. Each party should thereafter keep a signed copy of the
Loan Agreement.
Legal Considerations for Loan Agreement with Security
A loan agreement with security is a legal document which includes clauses stating the terms
and conditions between the parties - regarding the giving of loan, the security/collateral
involved, repayment of loan, etc.. It needs to be printed on stamp paper of the correct value and
signed by both parties. It can be modified or amended as per the terms of the agreement.
How can a lawyer help to draft Loan Agreement with Security?
One of the first and the most important steps that you must undertake is to hire a
good documentation lawyer as he/she is aware of the nitty gritty of the legal procedures and
necessary requirements involved in drafting of loan agreements(which involve security). A
lawyer would draft a loan agreement, better than you can yourself, for obvious reasons. A lawyer
has the necessary legal knowledge and experience to handle and draft such documents.
He/She will be able to guide you and draft for you according to your particular situation - the
facts, circumstances and needs involved. A documentation lawyer is aware of good drafting
technique and the clauses that must be included in your agreement. Hiring a good lawyer in
order to draft such important legal documents is a prerequisite and will help you in more ways
than one.