Documents Required for Anticipatory Bail Petition Application Format (Sessions Court &
High Court)
The application for anticipatory bail under Section 438 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is to
be signed by the accused or the applicant of the bail. An affidavit in support of the application is
to be filed along with the main application. A readable copy of the FIR is also to be attached
along with the petition. All relevant documents are also to be annexed along with the bail
application based on which the applicant is seeking anticipatory bail from the court. The
Counsel who is filing the application must also sign the application and must attach his memo
of appearance or power of attorney with the application. The details of the FIR, name of the
accused, father’s name of the accused should be properly mentioned in the application so that
the said contents are properly recorded in the judicial records.
Procedure for Anticipatory Bail Petition Application Format (Sessions Court & High Court)
It is advisable to engage a criminal lawyer once a criminal complaint or FIR has been lodged.
Once engaged, a suitable course of action including application for pre-arrest notice, notice bail
or anticipatory bail can be decided upon. The Lawyer would draft an application for anticipatory
bail mentioning as to why the bail shall be granted while stating your version of the facts
surrounding the matter. Once the application for anticipatory bail is drafted the advocate will
file the same at an appropriate Sessions Court. When the matter comes up for hearing, the
lawyer must appear and present the case. If the judge sees the case to be fit for granting
anticipatory bail, anticipatory bail is provided to the accused. In case anticipatory bail
application is rejected in the Sessions Court, the application can be made to the High Court. If
the High Court also rejects the bail, the application can be made in the Supreme Court.
Legal Considerations for Anticipatory Bail Petition Application Format (Sessions Court &
High Court)
Once, the bail is granted there are few formalities that have to be followed before the person is
finally out on bail. The Court also has the power to put some conditions and restrictions on the
same.
The conditions that may be imposed are as follows:
o The person shall make himself available for interrogation by the police officer as
and when required;
o The person shall not, directly or indirectly, make any threat or promise to any
person who is aware of the facts of the case so as to discourage him from
disclosing such facts to the court or to any police officer;
o The person shall not leave India without the previous permission of the court.
How can a lawyer help to draft Anticipatory Bail Petition Application Format (Sessions
Court & High Court)?
Being charged with a crime is a serious issue. A person facing criminal charges risks severe
penalties and consequences, such as jail time, having a criminal record, and loss of
relationships and future job prospects, among other things. While some legal matters can be
handled alone, a criminal case warrants the legal advice of a qualified criminal lawyer who can
protect your rights and secure the best possible outcome for your case. Owing to the experience
in bail related issues, a criminal lawyer is an expert in dealing with the complexities involved in cases of mental cruelty and this is why having a criminal lawyer by your side to guide you with a
case like this always adds up to your potential in dealing with the case effectively.
