Documents Required for Legal Notice for Defamation
The following documents must be scrutinized while drafting a legal notice for defamation:
o Proof of words/images etc (spoken or displayed or written) that have damaged
the reputation and thus caused defamation,
o Identity proof of sender,
o Any proof of damage to reputation, etc.
Procedure for Legal Notice for Defamation
No set procedure is applicable in the making of a legal notice for defamation. However, a legal
notice must be drafted and signed by a lawyer, with all the necessary details/contents as
mentioned above. Once the notice is drafted it should be thoroughly examined by the sender. It
should then be sent to the other parties. If no action is taken or no reply is received within the
number of days mentioned upon the notice, a suit for defamation against the defendant can be
filed in the court of proper jurisdiction.
Legal Considerations for Legal Notice for Defamation
A Legal Notice for Defamation is mainly governed by Code of Civil Procedure 1908, and the
Indian Penal Code 1862. In India, Defamation can be both a civil wrong and a criminal wrong.
Defamation is a tort under the civil law and a person can opt to file a civil suit for defamation
and compensation in the Court of appropriate jurisdiction (depending upon the amount of
compensation).
In order to seek justice from the criminal courts, the definition of defamation under the Indian
Penal Code (Section 499) must be fulfilled. A criminal procedure can be initiated against the
accused before the Judicial Magistrate having First Class rank. The accused can be punished
under Section 500 of the IPC.
How can a lawyer help to draft Legal Notice for Defamation?
Since, a legal notice is the first step towards recovery litigation, it is highly recommended that
you hire a civil or criminal lawyer. A lawyer has the requisite expertise and knowledge to draft
such legal notices. He/she will be able to accumulate important information for the client and
draft the notice accordingly. He/she will ensure that you are on the right path in attaining justice.
A lawyer can manage all legal paperwork effectively. Therefore, hiring an expert lawyer is of
prime importance in order to ensure that your legal notice for defamationn is sent correctly,
keeping in mind the possible litigation that may ensue