Documents Required for Legal Notice for Cancellation of Power of Attorney
No specific documents are required for drafting a legal notice for the cancellation of power of
attorney. However, the power of attorney must be scrutinized before sending the legal notice for
cancellation. Also, the details of the parties and their addresses must also be checked before a
legal notice for cancellation of power of attorney is being sent.
Procedure for Legal Notice for Cancellation of Power of Attorney
In order to cancel or revoke any Power of Attorney, there are certain specific steps that need to
be followed in a particular manner in order to legally revoke such a Power of Attorney. The steps
for such revocation of the Power of Attorney have been enumerated below:
o Firstly, only a POA that is of a revocable nature can be cancelled after it has only
been duly notarized by issuing a notice or a letter of revocation to the respective
Attorney.
o Such a letter of revocation must mention the reason for which this power (POA)
is being revoked along with the effective date of revocation and the
consequences of such an action therein.
o Such a notice of a letter must be duly served upon the Attorney for proceeding
with the revocation procedure.
o Furthermore, a paper publication is also required to be sent after issuing such
letter of revocation so as to inform all interested parties of the same.
o Moreover, a revocable Power of Attorney that is registered before a registrar or a
sub registrar can be revoked through the Deed of Revocation, wherein such a
deed is also required to be registered at the place of residence of the executor.
o Such a deed is required to comprise of the reason for such revocation, the
effective date of the revocation and the consequence which may follow.
o After this deed has been drafted and registered, a copy of it must be sent to the
Attorney in order to intimate him of such a revocation.
o Next, a paper publication must be necessarily made after issuing such a Deed of
revocation for making sure that the public in general has intimation about the
power having been revoked thereof.
o However, it is important to note that it is highly difficult to revoke an irrevocable
power of Attorney particularly if the Attorney in question has an interest in the
subject matter of the Power of Attorney.
o But in the case of a breach of the power, a revocation notice can be issued and in
some specific cases even a court of appropriate jurisdiction ould be approached
in order to bring forth the revocation of the POA.
o However, the Power of Attorney also automatically stands cancelled or revoked
in case of the death, insolvency or insanity of the executor in question or even
the Attorney or in such cases wherein the primary purpose of the POA has been
concluded.
Legal Considerations for Legal Notice for Cancellation of Power of Attorney
One needs to note the following cases when the Principal cannot revoke the power of attorney
such as:
o When the attorney has some right and interest over the subject matter. For that,
the power of attorney, the principal cannot revoke the power of attorney. In this
case, the consent of the attorney is mandatory for revocation.
o In case the attorney partly exercises his duty in accordance with the clauses of
the power of attorney. Then there is no deprivation of the right of the act which
he performs.
How can a lawyer help to draft Legal Notice for Cancellation of Power of Attorney?
Legal notice for cancellation of power of attorney is a legal document and thus hiring a
documentation lawyer for the purpose of drafting and execution is an important step. A
documentation lawyer, owing to his years of experience in drafting legal notices, can guide you
through the procedure of drafting along with the documentation required and the legal
considerations to be kept in mind for the same. He/she can ensure that all legal formalities are
fulfilled while sending the legal notice and that no legal harm is caused that cannot be rectified
even with future legal proceedings.